In this lecture you're going to learn how to work with json files in python.
JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation and is a popular
way to format data in a human readable way. These days
it's very important to know json because a lot of popular websites like Facebook
Twitter, Yelp, YouTube, etc provide their data
in Jason format. Also, if you have a website, you can provide your
data in json format. So let me show you how to work
with json files. On the top, import the json module.
Now let's create an array of movie objects.
So movies we set it to array, each item in this array,
is going to be a dictionary, because each movie object has properties like ID.
Title, year, and so on. So each movie is essentially
a collection of key value pairs. So
let's add a dictionary the first key is id we map that to 1,
the second is title, the second is title, we map that to
Terminator, the third is year and map that to
let's say 1989. Now let's add
another object, change the ID to 2,
title to Kindergarten Cop, and year to
1993. So here we have the movies
the object, now we can call json.dumps
pass this movies object here, and get a string that includes
movies data formatted as json. Let's take a look.
So data, you print it on the terminal,
there you go. So this is an example of json data.
Now in this case what you see here happens to be identical
syntax that we use to define an array of dictionary
in python. But this is not the case when working with other languages.
Now, back here so we have this data variable which is
a simple string, now we can write it to a file, so on the top,
from the path lib module, let's import
the path class. Then instead of printing
this on the terminal, we're going to create path object
let's say movies.json and then call
write text on it and pass this data string.
Let's run this program. Okay. Now here in our
project folder we have movies.json.
Beautiful. So you learned how to write data in a json file.
Now let's imagine we get this json file from somewhere else, this would be
the data we get from Facebook, twitter, IMDB, Yelp
YouTube and so on. So we should be able to read this data in Python.
Back to app.py. I'm going to delete this movies array.
As well as the line where we dump it to a json string.
So we start with this file, movies.json
and read all it's text
and store it in this variable. So now data is a string,
that includes data formatted as json. Next we need to parse
this string into an array of objects. So we call json
.loads. Pass this string here,
and this will return an array of dictionaries. Let's
call movies and print it on the terminal
so this is the movies array that we
had earlier. An array of dictionaries.
So we can simply get any items in this array,
here's the first movie, now we have a dictionary, using a square bracket
we can get the value of any of these keys, for example let's get the
title of the first movie, run the program, we get
terminator, so this is all about working with json files in python.